If you have been in a conversation
on machine learning,
you have probably heard terms like
feature, sample, and variable.
We will be defining some of
those terms in this lecture.
After this video, you will be able
to describe what a feature is, and
how it relates to a sample.
Name some alternative terms for feature.
Summarize how a categorical feature
differs from a numerical feature.
Before we delve into the methods for
processing and
analyzing data, let's first start with
defining some term used to describe data,
starting with sample and variable.
A sample is an instance or
example of an entity in your data.
This is typically a row in your dataset.
This figure shows part of a dataset
of values related to weather.
Each row is a sample representing
weather data for particular day.
The table in the figure shows four samples
of weather data, each for different day.
In this table, each sample has
five values associated with it.
These values are different
information pieces about the sample
such as the sample ID, sample date,
minimum temperature, maximum temperature,
and rainfall on that day.
We call these different values
variables of the sample.
There are many names for
sample and variable.
Some other terms for sample that you
might hear in a machine learning
context include record, example,
row, instance and observation.
It is helpful to realize that all of
these terms mean the same thing in
machine learning.
That is, they all refer to a specific
example of an entity in your dataset.
There are also many names for the term
variable, such as feature, column,
dimension, attribute, and field.
All of these terms refer to
specific characteristics for
each sample in your dataset.
An important point to emphasize
about variable is that,
they are additional
values with a data type.
Each variable has a data
type associated with it.
The most common data types are numeric and
categorical.
There are other data types as
well such as string and date but
we will focus on two of the more common
data types, numeric and categorical.
As the name implies, numeric variables
are variables that take on number values.
Numeric variables can be measured, and
their values can be sorted in some way.
Note that a numeric variable can
take on just integer values or
be continuous valued.
It can also have just positive numbers,
negative numbers or both.
Let's go over some examples
of various numeric variables.
A person's height is a positive,
continuous valued number.
The score in an exam is a positive number
that range between zero and a 100%.
The number of transactions per
hour is a positive integer,
whereas the change in a stock price
can be either positive or negative.
A variable with labels,
names, or categories for
values instead of numbers
are called categorical variables.
For example a variable that describes
the color of an item, such as the color of
a car, can have values such as red,
silver, blue, white and black.
These are non-numeric values
that describes some quality or
characteristic of an entity.
These values can be thought of as names or
labels that can be sorted into categories.
Therefore, categorical variables are also
referred to as qualitative variables, or
nominal variables.
Some examples of categorical
variables are gender, marital status,
type of customer, for example,
teenager, adult, senior.
Product categories, for example,
electronics, kitchen, bathroom and
color of an item.
To summarize, a sample is an instance or
example of an entity in your data.
A variable captures a specific
characteristic of each entity.
So a sample has many
variables to describe it.
Data from real applications
are often multidimensional,
meaning that there are many dimensions or
variables describing each sample.
Each variable has a data
type associated with it,
the most common data types are numeric and
categorical.
Note that there are many terms to
describe these data related concepts.